In this section we're going to be looking at iterators and generators and first of all I want to set
my use strict mode within my javascript code and basically what this will do is this will restrict and
allow us to have our code executed within a strict mode.
And this is a new directive that came along in ECMAScript version 5.
It's not a literal expression and it's ignored by earlier versions of javascript so it basically allows
you to force that.
The format is now going to be in a strict format so any errors that you might be writing that might
have been ignored earlier are going to get thrown within the con..
So next to that we want to do is look at generator's so generators are functions but they have little
asterisks beside them.
So this indicates that this is a generator and generators work with a yield keyword.
So let's just create a generator function.
So it looks very similar.
And what we do within the generator function so we can set some variables.
I'm going to set one called counter.
So it's going to run within here and we're going to loop through the counter and we're going to loop
through it while counter is less than 10 and we're going to use the yield keyword.
So this is going to yield back.
And this is going to give us essentially a needle or a point that the state is of this irit a reader
now going to access this generator.
So let's just do a regular let and recall it page and PGE generator.
And I'm going to console log out.
What's contained now with NPG.
So this isn't a normal function.
This is a generator.
So it's going to look slightly different and it's probably something that you're not expecting that
there is quite a bit of information that's being held in here.
So we've got a generator.
We've got a generator status.
So currently the generator status is suspended.
We've got some scopes here.
So where the generator scope is and then we've also got the generator values there.
So we've got a caller a length and so on.
So next let's take another step and let's do something with this generator so now that we have our generators
set up we've got a number of options that are available within the generator and the whole purpose of
generators is to be able to move through and iterate through a number of values.
So let's so we've set up kind of a default here where we're looping through.
So this is returning back a bunch of different values so every time we go through the generator and
we move to next we're going to yield a different value so essentially counter is going to increment
by one every week.
Every time we call back to the generator find out the position of the generator and currently it's suspended.
And we have a way to move it through to the next one.
And that's using the next method.
So that's simply next.
And it's the next method.
So this is built into the generators.
And let me show you what this puts So let's refresh it and we see now that value is 0 and done is false.
So that means that there's still content there that we can continue to move through.
So it hasn't stopped returning content and it's still allowing us to move through next.
So if I duplicate the sote several times refresh it we see that we move to value 1 2 and 3 and we can
continue to move through here until we hit the end of the counter.
So if I set the end of the counter at 2 and let's do a few more let's refresh it and then we see that
the value is.
So we get we started at zero.
The first time we run through.
So we get return back zero.
The next time we run through the counter increases to 1 we yield that and we return that.
And then because the statement is no longer going to be true we're not able to loop through any values
passed to or first past the first two.
So 0 and 1 we return back undefined and we see that done comes out to true.
So basically what this means is this is ideal and perfect for a loop because we know that we can loop
through a series of values and we can also break out of the loop if we see a certain condition.
And the one thing that you do need to be careful of here is that when you're moving through next that
every time you call next you're actually going to move the needle over one.
So are going to move that yield over one.
So if you were to simply loop through and check to make sure that page next is going to be is equal
to false and continue to move it through until it hits true then you're still going to run into a problem
because if you want to output any of that content you have to do PGE next.
All the time in order to get the values.
So the best thing and the best solution usually is if you want to actually have output to those that
content and you want to loop through it.
So just set up a regular loop as you normally would.
So I'm going to loop it through till 10 times and increment I.
So there's a loop and I'm going to set up a variable so basically a holder for that value.
And this is where I'm going to do the Peachi next.
So that way we're not going to move our needle at all and we're going to get that we're going to capture
all of that information so the value in the done stayed within holder.
And then here is where we can apply our condition so we can check to see if Holder is done.
So if this is true and if it is true then we can simply break out of our loop and that's we it's a good
use for break as well within loops.
So now let's let's sort of put our values with a console log out the value of Holder because remember
Holder is holding that PGE next object.
So do holder value.
And what put that in the console and we can also output the contents of Holder done.
So let's refresh this.
And now we see that we've got these values get output here so we get the zero which is the value and
done is false.
One is the value done is false.
And then once done it's true that we stop running through there and we can also see that when we go
down here the generator now has changed to close it's not suspended anymore because now the state is
closed.
We've run through and we've completed all the content within the generator and we also see that if we
try to keep trying to call to it we're going to get undefined and done is equal to true.
So that's the state of that generator once we've run through all the content that's contained within
there.
So if I was to change this to 20 and we can see that now we end up looping through everything and not
going to have the status there of done but we can see that we're looping through and we're getting through
all nine there and our generators still suspended.
We can see that we can still access the next value the next value the next value.
So we can start where we stopped off here and we can continue through because this generator now has
more items and it's got 20 different 20 values that it's ready to return.
So I know that this was a fairly complex topic and we've run through it fairly quickly but there's a
lot of power behind this because this gives us the ability to essentially loop through values and pull
them back into our applications and then make use of them.
So we've got the State of the generator and we can also see if the generator status if it's suspended
that means there's more content within the generator.
So if we're developing our application we can always call to it and pull back even more information.
So what do I need to do now is try the suit for yourself.
So set up a generator and you can have a number of pieces of content and so on and you can essentially
loop through all those pieces of content and yield that information back.
So that's essentially the place within the iteration of the content that you're at or you could just
set up a loop here as well.
To simulate having that content.
So set up a value and then loop through it and then output that and output various values and then also
try to within the for loop where you can pick up and check to see if the value of done is false or Idalia
of done is true.
And then break the loop.
So go out and try this out for yourself within your editor.